Draft Octane plan blog post (#233)
ember-learn/ember-blog: source/2019-08-15-octane-release-plan.md

---
title: Octane is coming in v3.14
author: Yehuda Katz, Jen Weber
tags: 2019, Announcement, Recent Posts
responsive: true
---

The Ember community is wrapping up the [Octane](https://emberjs.com/editions/) edition, and we expect to get it over the finish line over the next three releases!

> 

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful to have a one- or two-sentence description of Octane near the introduction. The post currently dives in assuming people already know what Octane is.

Author: >The Ember community is wrapping up the work for [Octane](https://emberjs.com/editions/), and we expect to get it over the finish line over the next three releases!
Ember Octane updates Ember with modern, streamlined components and stage management that makes it fun to build components. It has seamless interoperability with existing apps, letting teams migrate at their own pace.

Author: This is very good feedback, thank you!

> - The latest release of Ember is 3.12, which is a an LTS (long term support) candidate. As an LTS, it does not have any significant new features, but it does have many of Octane's features! Check out the [release blog posts](https://blog.emberjs.com) to learn about them.

Reviewer: Is it important to state that the LTS has many Octane features? Saying it "does not have any significant new features" but also "it does have many of Octane's features" was a little confusing for me and seemed to imply that Octane itself doesn't have any significant new features.

Author: Simplified to:

- The next release of Ember is 3.12, which is a an LTS (long term support) candidate. Check out the [release blog posts](https://blog.emberjs.com) to learn which of Octane's features are already available in stable releases.

> - The latest release of Ember is 3.12, which is a an LTS (long term support) candidate. As an LTS, it does not have any significant new features, but it does have many of Octane's features! Check out the [release blog posts](https://blog.emberjs.com) to learn about them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The latest release of Ember is 3.12, which is an LTS (long term support) candidate. As an LTS, it does not have any significant new features, but it does have many of Octane's features! Check out the [release blog posts](https://blog.emberjs.com) to learn about them.
```

- Ember 3.13 will be feature-complete for Octane, and apps using stable Ember can opt in to Octane. At this point, we're still wrapping up polish, especially in the codemods, inspector and guides.

> - In Ember 3.14, Octane mode will be the primary, recommended way to use Ember. Ember 3.14 will default new apps to Octane mode, and it will be the recommended mode. The guides and tutorials will document Octane mode and Octane idioms, and codemods to help users migrate to Octane idioms will be available.

Reviewer: "Octane mode" means specifically enabling the right optional features?

Reviewer: This part was a little confusing for me because so far in the post, "Octane mode" has not been defined (as a separate concept from just "Octane"). Will the concept of a "mode" be meaningful to an Ember developer reading this post? Where would they have heard this term before?

Author: Edited to remove "mode"

- The next release of Ember is 3.12, which is a an LTS (long term support) candidate. Check out the [release blog posts](https://blog.emberjs.com) to learn which of Octane's features are already in stable releases.
- Ember 3.13 will be feature-complete for Octane, and apps using stable Ember can opt in. At this point, we're still wrapping up polish, especially in the codemods, inspector and guides.
- In Ember 3.14, Octane will be the primary, recommended way to use Ember. In Ember 3.14, new apps will have Octane's optional features enabled by default. The guides and tutorials will show Octane examples, and codemods will be available to help users migrate to Octane idioms.

> **Octane features are opt-in**, and this will continue to be true for the rest of the 3.x series. As semver would suggest, all releases until 4.0 are backwards-compatible with 3.x.

Reviewer: s/semver/SemVer/

## Preparing your apps for Octane

Ember Octane is a collection of existing features, many of which have already shipped in stable releases. If your team is excited to use Octane, there are some things you can do today📅 to prepare.

### Visit the Octane Migration channel on Discord

[Ember Discord](https://emberjs.com/community) has a new channel called `#topic-octane-migration` where you can ask any questions you have or get help along the way. If you are new to Discord, post in `#discord-server-admin` to request permissions to post.

### Update your app to 3.12

Update your app to 3.12 after it is released. [ember-cli-update](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli-update) will help you out!

### Brush up on classes

Octane uses [Native JavaScript Classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes), so we recommend that developers try them out with regular JavaScript examples to learn the basics, if they are not already familiar. Without some background knowledge of classes, it will be hard for developers to tell which pieces are specific to Ember versus native JavaScript syntax.

### Consider trying Octane features that have already landed

> The rest of the sections below cover optional features in Octane that you can consider using now. These features are not interdependent. You can opt into them one at a time, in any order.

Reviewer 2: I'd avoid using a double negative.
```suggestion
The rest of the sections below cover optional features in Octane that you can consider using now. These features are independent of each other. You can opt into them one at a time, in any order.
```

You will be able to migrate to many of Octane's idioms automatically using codemods that we will finalize with Ember 3.14. We do not recommend trying to mass-migrate older code (like `@ember/component` Components) without those codemods.

Even then, many teams may want to not convert older code at all, and just start using Octane idioms moving forward. **This is a valid, fully supported approach.** We will have a guide to upgrading describing the options and strategy that we will finalize with Ember 3.14. At the same time, all of the Ember Guides and Tutorials will be fully migrated to Octane idioms. You can get a sneak peek of those work-in-progress learning resources [here](https://emberjs.com/editions/octane)!

### application-template-wrapper

> In classic Ember, your entire application is automatically wrapped in a `<div>` with the class `ember-application`. Octane applications do not automatically insert this uneccessary `<div>`.

Reviewer: s/uneccessary/unnecessary/ (missing 'n')

In classic Ember, components that have a template but no JavaScript file get assigned a default component (`EmberComponent.extend()`). This means that you can refer to properties on this implicit component using two-way bindings, and those properties will be implicitly created for you.

Octane does not implicitly create a component class for you, and the `this` context inside the template is `undefined`. You can still refer to passed-in arguments using `@name` and yield to blocks using `yield`, but references to properties on the component like `{{someProp}}` or `{{this.someProp}}` will not work.

Enabling `template-only-glimmer-components` will opt you in to the new behavior. The easiest way to migrate existing applications to this flag is to create an explicit JavaScript file for each template-only component that refers to properties on the implicit component.

Alternatively, you could eliminate any references to the implicit component by renaming arguments from `{{someArg}}` to `{{@someArg}}` and removing any reliance on two-way bindings on the implicit component.

When done, you can opt in to the new behavior:

```sh
$ ember feature:enable template-only-glimmer-component

> ```

Reviewer: Is there a migration guide or blog post for this optional feature we can link people to?

Author: Not that I know of.

No matter what kind of component you're using, you should start using `this` to refer to component properties in new code. The `[no-implicit-this](https://github.com/ember-template-lint/ember-template-lint/blob/master/docs/rule/no-implicit-this.md)` template lint can help you avoid using this deprecated pattern by accident.

Ember 3.14 will finalize a codemod that uses dynamic information from booting up your app to automatically insert `this` where needed. We recommend waiting for this codemod to be finalized before attempting to mass-migrate your codebase. 

### Angle Bracket Invocation

This one landed a while ago, and many people have already started to use it in their apps. In classic Ember, you would idiomatically invoke components using curly bracket syntax:

```handlebars
{{input value=this.name}}
{{#link-to route=this.routeName}}Some content{{/link-to}}
```

Octane introduces a new way of idiomatically invoking components using curly braces and `@names`.

```handlebars
<Input @value={{this.name}} />

> <LinkTo @route={{this.routeName}}>Some content<LinkTo>

Reviewer 3: Missing slash on the closing `</LinkTo>` tag

Author: good catch, thanks!

### application-template-wrapper

In classic Ember, your entire application is automatically wrapped in a `<div>` with the class `ember-application`. Octane applications do not automatically insert this unneccessary `<div>`.

If your CSS (or JavaScript) relies on this `<div>`, you can explicitly add it to your `application.hbs` or refactor your code to no longer rely on it.

You opt in to this change by

```sh
ember feature:disable application-template-wrapper
```

### jquery-integration

In classic Ember, jQuery is automatically included, and `this.$` inside of component classes uses jQuery to select from the DOM. Ember Octane does not include jQuery automatically, nor does it include any direct jQuery integration in the component API.

> Ember's internals no longer depend on jQuery. If your app still uses jQuery directly and you want to continue using it, you can add `@ember/jquery` to your `package.json` and disable this classic feature. You will still be able to use all the other features of Octane.

Reviewer 4: Disable or enable this classic feature?

Seems like what we're opting for here is "and keep using this classic feature"

Author: This feature has reverse boolean logic. It is unfortunate. Enabling/disabling does the opposite of what you would think.

Octane does not implicitly create a component class for you, and the `this` context inside the template is `undefined`. You can still refer to passed-in arguments using `@name` and yield to blocks using `yield`, but references to properties on the component like `{{someProp}}` or `{{this.someProp}}` will not work.

Enabling `template-only-glimmer-components` will opt you in to the new behavior. The easiest way to migrate existing applications to this flag is to create an explicit JavaScript file for each template-only component that refers to properties on the implicit component.

Alternatively, you could eliminate any references to the implicit component by renaming arguments from `{{someArg}}` to `{{@someArg}}` and removing any reliance on two-way bindings on the implicit component.

When done, you can opt in to the new behavior:

```sh
ember feature:enable template-only-glimmer-component
```

## Using Octane idioms today

> Because many of Octane's features have a already landed, you can start trying out these new features today.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Because many of Octane's features have already landed, you can start trying out these new features today.
```
